TimeTracker: Documentation


Step by Step Tutorial:

So you want to use the TimeTracker application. That's great!
In this Tutorial you will get to know the features of this program.

1. First things First... Logging In

When you first start the TimeTracker there will be a Username and a Password field.
If you already have a User, enter your Username and your password and hit enter.

If you dont have a user, in the next step we discuss creating one.

1b. Creating a User
So you don't have a User for yourself. That's no problem we create one.
First click on the "New User"-Link in the Login Form. It will take you to the 
"New User"-Form. 
Enter a username and a password and click save.

2. Using the TimeTracker
So now you are logged in and ready to use the TimeTracker. That's great.
On the left side you will seee some Buttons named "Logout", "Start", "Pause" and 
"Book it".

Under these Buttons is the overview over your tasks for the day. Curently it's empty
but we will change that in a minute.

Click the "Start"-Button to create a new Task. A Task named "In Progress" will appear
in your overview. Currently its internal and there is no time logged for it.
Over time the time in the field "Time in minutes" will increase.
If you want to pause this task simply click the task and the click the "pause"-button,
or click the "pause"-button in the same row as the task.

There are 3 Buttons in the task row of your overview "Pause"/"Start", "Edit" and "Delete"
The "pause" and "start" Button you can use to start and pause the task in the same row.
The delete Button deletes the task from you overview.

Now we want to change the name of the task. Simply press the "Edit"-Button in the same row
as the taks you want to change. The Form "Booking" will appear where you can change the name,
if the task is internal and the date of the taks.

So now we are finished with our first task. So we want to finish it.
We click the task we want to finish and click "Book it". The form "Booking" will appear again,
but now we can also change the time in minutes we needed for this task. If you click save 
the task will be finished. You can't start the task again but you can edit the time anytime 
you like.

3. Other Things

3a Only show active tasks
On the right side you will see a checkbox named "Only active tasks". If you check it only the active
and all not finished tasks will appear in your overview.

3b Critical days
Right in the upper middle you will see a list with the title "critical days". Whenever there is an entry
there means you did not log enough time on this day to break the requiered logged time which was
chosen by the administrator.
Double click on an entry to jump to the specified date.

3c Change Password
Click on this button to change your password. A form similar to the "New User"-Form will appear.
Enter your old password and your new password. Click save. Now you have a new password.


4. Admin

If you are an admin you also will have the admin button in the upper right corner.

On the left side you have a dropDownlist with all users that use the TimeTracker.
Under that list you can specify the start and end date you want to see the tasks logged
by that user. Click on load data to see the tasks.

If you want to save this data click on "Export as excel" to save the overview as a 
excel-spreadsheet.

Right in the upper middle you have a list of the Critical days. It works the same just as in
the overview for one user. But for all users. Double click on an entry to jump to the specified 
date.

Under "Usermanagement" you can create and edit users. Like change to password of an user
or delete an existing user.

Under "Settings" you can set the required time each user has to log every day he logs.
Beware that if a user don't logs a whole day the day won't show up under critical days.












